+++
# A Demo section created with the Blank widget.
# Any elements can be added in the body: https://sourcethemes.com/academic/docs/writing-markdown-latex/
# Add more sections by duplicating this file and customizing to your requirements.

widget = "blank"  # See https://sourcethemes.com/academic/docs/page-builder/
headless = true  # This file represents a page section.
share = false


title = "EE 67074-AI Planning"
subtitle = "from Graph Search to Reinforcement Learning"
date='1990-01-01T00:00:00+00:00'
lastmod='2023-08-07T00:00:00+00:00'
[design]
  # Choose how many columns the section has. Valid values: 1 or 2.
  # columns = "2"


[design.background]
  # Apply a background color, gradient, or image.
  #   Uncomment (by removing `#`) an option to apply it.
  #   Choose a light or dark text color by setting `text_color_light`.
  #   Any HTML color name or Hex value is valid.

  # Background color.
  # color = "navy"
  
  # Background gradient.
  # gradient_start = "DarkGreen"
  # gradient_end = "ForestGreen"
  
  # Background image.
  # image = "pylons.jpg"  # Name of image in `static/img/`.
  # image_darken = 0.6  # Darken the image? Range 0-1 where 0 is transparent and 1 is opaque.
  # image_size = "cover"  #  Options are `cover` (default), `contain`, or `actual` size.
  # image_position = "center"  # Options include `left`, `center` (default), or `right`.
  # image_parallax = true  # Use a fun parallax-like fixed background effect? true/false
  
  # Text color (true=light or false=dark).
  # text_color_light = true

[design.spacing]
  # Customize the section spacing. Order is top, right, bottom, left.
  # padding = ["20px", "0", "20px", "0"]

[advanced]
 # Custom CSS. 
 css_style = ""
 
 # CSS class.
 css_class = ""
+++

**Description** 

Realizing the dreams of autonomy requires autonomous systems that learn to make good decisions. Decision-making is a fundamental challenge in an enormous range of tasks, including robotics, transportation systems, and smart manufacturing, etc. This class will provide a solid introduction to the field of AI planning and decision-making, with a focus on robotic applications. The lectures will start from AI planning methods for deterministic systems and approach to learning near-optimal decisions from past experiences in the real world full of uncertainty. This course is intended for graduate students interested in robotics, autonomy, control, and learning. 

---

**Course outline**

- Deterministic decision-making: graph search, AI planning & automated planning, dynamic programming, model predictive control

- Decision-making under uncertainty: Markov Chain, Markov Decision Processes, Hidden Markov Chain, Partially Observable Markov Decision Processes

- Reinforcement Learning: model-based RL, policy gradients, value function based methods, actor-critic methods

We will cover these topics through a combination of lectures, assignments, and programming-based projects. 

---

**Textbooks**

- (Recommended) Artificial Intelligence: A Modern Approach, Stuart J. Russell and Peter Norvig

- (Recommended) Principles of Robot Motion: Theory, Algorithms, and Implementations, Howie Choset, Kevin Lynch, Seth Hutchinson, George Kantor, Wolfram Burgard

- (Recommended) Reinforcement Learning: An Introduction, Sutton and Barto, 2nd Edition

---

**Syllabus**

The syllabus is both available on canvas and [here](uploads/Fall2023_teaching/67074_syllabus.pdf)
